I'm gonna give you the disturbing
suggestion in this video that my role as
a youtuber your role as a youtuber our
role as youtubers is much closer to
being an author for Wikipedia than it is
to being a movie star or a news reader
on a public broadcast network what I'm
doing and what we're doing here falls
into the same class of fundamentally
unmonitored content creation but people
are attached to a false analogy that
somehow because it's a person talking
into a camera because aesthetically it
resembles a news broadcast that were
entitled to the kind of payments of an
employee of a TV station doesn't even
matter if you reach a bigger audience
than your local TV station if you reach
1 million viewers per video on YouTube
you'd be making $4,000 for that video
what we're doing here economically in
terms of its value is more like
Wikipedia than it is like the nightly
news
there are a non-specialists without any
real depth and they just kind of go
around and try to you know make a survey
of secondary sources at a shallow level
put together a YouTube video and reach a
reach a mass audience and then they feel
entitled to earn a living they think
that has value and the free market is
telling you very clearly that has no
value
it's very easy for a need sense of
justice to interfere with our
understanding of economics economics is
not just significant as a social science
economics is not just important as a
practical tool for your own financial
planning to figure out how much money
you can earn and how much money could
spend economics is really important as a
kind of key to unlock social and
political phenomena on a large scale and
to figure out how those phenomena
intersect with your own life on the
small scale of one person struggling to
survive struggling to lead a meeting
life and what-have-you in terms of our
innate sense of justice I think it's
natural to sympathize with the clip I'm
about to play you it's natural to
sympathize sympathize the guy who comes
on camera and tells you he makes history
videos and if nobody wants to pay him a
decent wage for making those videos then
that's your problem it's natural to
sympathize with a grape farmer in France
who says hey his job is planting grapes
and he's planting grapes on this land
where other farmers have have planted
grapes for 500 years or 2,000 years and
if nobody wants to buy the grapes if
nobody wants to drink the wine that's
made from those grapes and that's your
problem then the French taxpayer has to
support his lifestyle he has to be he
shouldn't have to change what it is he's
farming or what is he's doing even if
the wine he's producing is so worthless
on the free market that it's more
valuable being processed as garbage and
recycled into industrial alcohol which
is what happens with the French
government wine subsidy schemes because
they don't want to lower the value of
the other one that's on the market they
buy up these grapes turn them into
garbage rate even in these circumstances
it's easy for someone in that position
to appeal to your sense of justice and
for that emotion to override the kind of
detached rational faculty that would
lead you to question whether oh wait a
minute what's the point of producing
wine that nobody wants to drink what's
the point of farming if it's not even on
a break-even basis let alone a
profitable basis what is the point of
filmmaking for empty seats or what is
the point of writing history in
recording history videos if people do
watch it but it doesn't generate any
money on the free market for us to
survive on
I uploaded a video a couple weeks ago on
the Battle of Dien Bien Phu it's a
smaller conflict that happens so it
doesn't have any anything to do with the
Holocaust or anything like that so it's
not necessarily controversial history if
that is even a thing you can you guys
can see here exactly where this got to
monetized it's not just the the one
dollar that I made I made one dollar on
this video if I release two videos a
month and two videos get to monetized I
lose a whole month's worth of income and
that is like really devastating just
been happening to every release now that
I'm doing it's just gonna keep happening
and I'm gonna lose all the money that
I'm investing into these episodes
they're expensive to make and it's not
just turning on the camera we've got to
do animation and research and writing
and make sure it's all the subjects are
covered well I'm going to unlist all
these videos I'm not going to make
anything anymore so I'm done making
content argument by analogy is
inevitable and useful but we sometimes
fall into the trap of being attached to
an analogy that we haven't really
announced or enunciated ourselves we
didn't verbalize this analogy we just
presume it without examining it so a lot
of people here who come and talk on
camera they may have in mind the analogy
a news broadcaster someone who reads the
news on CBS PBS NB C whatever on
television that person earns a good
living they put on a suit and tie and
sit in front of a camera and this is how
much money they're so if I come on
YouTube and I reach an audience of
100,000 people
I should earn as much money or more
money than this person who maybe reads
the the local news local town news local
cities and they only reach 100,000
people also therefore I'm entitled to
that wage right this is the sense of
entitlement the sense of appealing to to
justice and this is not true at all it's
very easy for an historian to look at
the the record of past
authors who have been non-specialists
waiting for a non specialist audience
writing for the masked market they can
look at the example of will Durham Will
Durant Americans say will duro and his
wife who published complete garbage on
the history of Western civilization and
the history of Asian civilization and
they sold more than 2 million copies of
big heavy hardcover nonfiction books and
when you sell more than 2 million copies
you make a lot more than two million
dollars especially back in those days
they had hit books from the 1930s to the
1960s and let me tell you something the
quality of those books is much much much
lower than what you can now find on
Wikipedia but there's a hint when we
look at Wikipedia that we might be
attached to the wrong analogy yeah yeah
yeah that's right some people sit in
front of a camera and they they generate
a news report for the nightly news and
local TV and they earn a lot of money or
they aren't a good living and some
people in the past wrote non-specialists
history books for a huge audience and
they made millions dollars but you know
what there are these other people and
they create content for Wikipedia and
they never earn a dime which one do I
have more in common with which one which
one is being a youtuber fundamentally
economically similar to I'm going to
give you the disturbing suggestion in
this video that my role as a youtuber
your role as a youtuber our role as
youtubers he's much closer to being an
author for Wikipedia than it is to being
a movie star or a news reader on a
public broadcast network what I'm doing
and what we're doing here falls into the
same class of fundamentally unmonitored
content creation that wikipedia
represents google it up how much money
did even the founder and CEO of
wikipedia make almost nothing there were
two guys who were credited as a founder
one of them is about a million dollars
net worth the other about 650,000 both
could have made far more money if they
had taken their time and energy and gone
into any other area of software
development any other area of even
website development during the same
period of time and that net worth like
Jimmy Wales founder of Wikipedia him
having a million dollars to his name
almost all of it comes from projects
other than Wikipedia he has a long
career of many projects the other guy -
the less famous co-founder a university
professor with a handsome salary
interesting guys interesting careers
they did not make much money out of
Wikipedia and the people like you and I
the content creators Wikipedia almost
all of us made 0 and right here on
YouTube it's the same thing but people
are attached to a false analogy that
somehow because it's a person talking
into a camera because aesthetically it
resembles a news broadcast that were
entitled to the kind of payments of an
employee of a TV station it doesn't even
matter if you reach a bigger audience
than your local TV station if you reach
1 million viewers per video on YouTube
you'd be making $4,000 for that video if
you're lucky and it's long and there's a
lot of advertising could be 8,000 but
guess what it could be 2000 also and it
could be demonetized if you get 0 what
we're doing here economically in terms
of its value is more like Wikipedia than
it is like the nightly news and it has
nothing in common with the logic behind
the multimillion-dollar hit success of
will Durham raiding his garbage history
of civilization starting in the 1930s
let's move a little bit deeper here will
de Rome the story of civilization
non-specialists
writing history for
mass audience mass-market
non-specialists readers what gets
rewarded on YouTube
specialization writing for an audience
that's narrow but deep if what you do on
YouTube is very particular and is
appreciated by a particular group of
people deeply then they will pay you
money to pursue the kind of content
you're creating to pursue the political
activism you're trying to do to chase
your dreams whatever your dreams may be
and when you scale it up socially this
probably does more harm than good
who does this reward it doesn't reward a
non-specialist a guy who no offense but
that guy doesn't know Vietnamese that
guy doesn't have a deep understanding of
your Vietnam and I'm gonna lose all the
money that I'm investing into these
episodes they're expensive to make and
it's not just turning on the camera
we've got to do animation and research
and writing shoot who's who should make
that video not you a specialist should
make it for its specialized audience you
should appreciate somebody doing active
research presenting an informed opinion
maybe if they do that maybe they'll
reach a much smaller audience that
audience is gonna appreciate it's gonna
it's gonna pay for it especially if it's
connected to something that can make the
world a better place some kind of real
world outcomes some kind of some kind of
activism this rewards specialists like
the flat earth people write all kinds of
crazy kooky scientifically false and
fraudulent movements get rewarded but
the underlying logic of how YouTube
works and how Wikipedia works and how in
general the new era of internet media
all right and again you may feel a sense
of injustice you may look at some
ridiculous conspiracy theory YouTube
channel that's out there supporting a
100% meat diet and think how is it that
this guy is making money and flying
around the world and holding conferences
to promote totally irresponsible hundred
percent meat diet and then you look over
at some relative
the virtuous Channel that may be again
producing for a mass market may even be
getting a hundred thousand viewers per
video but this guy can't earn a living
this guy can't survive whereas the
person presenting specialized content
for an audience that's narrow but deep
for an audience that cares enough to
support it he's successful in another
way you scale that up the problem isn't
just a few little comparisons a few
little examples like Flat Earth and
carnivore diet and it's Gotham you're
aware this is part of the eccentric
ation of mass media the breaking of mass
media into these small little islands of
social media and they're rewarding the
most extreme the most narrow the most
highly specialized voices and all of it
ultimately relies on you the viewer to
voluntarily pony up the money but think
about how little money it is that's
being asked for from you right think
about how much money it would have cost
you in 1935 to buy the first volume of
will Durant's garbage book a story of
civilization vol 1 are oriental heritage
you know nobody is even asking the
question sorry how many Asian languages
does this guy know how many years did he
knew nothing I mean he knew less than an
editor on Wikipedia this is a non
specialist going around doing a very
casual scanning of secondary sources and
putting them together an impressive
looking book and that's what a lot of
people are trying to do here on YouTube
there are a non-specialists without any
real depth and they just kind of go
around and try to you know make a survey
of secondary sources at a shallow level
put together a YouTube video and reach a
reach a mass audience and then they feel
entitled to earn a living they think
that has value and the free market is
telling you very clearly that has no
value what has value now on you
and I think also objectively when you
think about the meaning and significance
of research is to do research that as
real depth to do research that comes to
original findings new conclusions push
back the frontiers of human knowledge
abet to do research that's actionable to
find out things and communicate things
to your audience that could actually
make the world a better place through
activism of some kind through government
policy through changing how we live and
what we do right not just stuff that's
for discussion in a parlor room not just
stuff that's informing someone who
starts at level zero awareness of the
issue to get them up to level two or
three but something that's going to be
deeply appreciated by some audience it's
completely false to respond to this like
the wine farmer in France and say hey my
job is growing these grapes and if
nobody wants to eat them nobody wants to
drink the wine if nobody wants to pay me
so I can have the kind of lifestyle I
aspire to then that's your
[Music]